So, which is truly the best health
insurance plan in India for 2026? Agents
in your neighborhood push plans where
they get maximum commissions. Comparison
sites rank based on sponsored results.
But today, you will get to see something
very, very different. We will show you
top five health insurance plans with
their ratings and ranks backed by solid
data from ILM Research, India's only
independent insurance research platform,
not backed by commissions or any kind of
marketing partnerships. This research by
ILM isn't just about shiny brochures. It
goes very, very deep. It drills down on
fine print, even audits their toll-free
numbers, their purchase journey, looks
deeply at important ratios like
complaints ratio, incurred claim ratio,
to finally rate the plans. It koi bhi
type ka sales nahi hai. Ye actual
research hai. So, based on the
independent research on 60 plus plans,
here are the top five nominees: HDFC
Ergo Optima Secure, Aditya Birla Activ
One Max, ICICI Lombard Elevate, Manipal
Cigna's Sarva Param, and SBI General's
Super Health Prime. We'll go through
each one of them, look at what makes
them special, check their claims
performance, see their pricing, and in
the end, based on the unbiased ILM
ratings, we'll reveal the final ranking
and ratings. I know it can be very
difficult to trust, but that's exactly
why ILM has refused any commission or
marketing tie-ups with insurance
companies. They cannot be biased even if
they want to. Let's begin with nominee
number one, Aditya Birla Activ One Max.
Now, this is a comprehensive
hospitalization plan that comes at
affordable premiums. It further tries to
keep premiums affordable during
renewals, even make it zero by offering
discounts based on the number of steps
you walk and many other lifestyle
suggestions. Next, looking at its claims
experience. Speed of claim settlement,
that is claims settled in 30 days, is
99.9%,
which is close to perfect. And next is
claim rejection ratio. Matlab kitne
claims reject karti hai ye company
versus the number of claims it receives.
It is at 3.98%,
which is quite decent, honestly. Looking
at customer service where ILM checks
response time on Twitter and the
company's toll-free, it's rated at quick
on Twitter and average in case of
toll-free. Now, looking at the pricing
of this plan. Basically, for a standard
persona, Mr. Kumar, 30-year-old with his
wife and his kid who's 1 year old living
in Mumbai, what would be the pricing for
a 10 lakh sum assured? The premium comes
to 18,584
rupees for Aditya Birla Activ One Max.
Okay, next, moving on to HDFC Ergo
Optima Secure. This plan is known for
its 2x cover from day one and quite good
in their claims performance. Other than
that, it offers an add-on where you can
get an unlimited cover for one major
hospitalization during the lifetime of
the policy. Quickly discussing the
claims experience of HDFC Ergo. Now,
speed of claim settlement is 96.63%,
which is decent. Next, very important,
claim rejection ratio. It is 2.47%,
which is one of the best in the market.
Looking at customer experience, both
Twitter and toll-free, they are rated as
average, not good, not bad. Pricing of
this plan for the same Mr. Kumar and
family comes to around 24,035 rupees.
Yes, of course, it is expensive because
the 2x cover pricing is baked in. Next
is ICICI Lombard Elevate. This plan is
known to keep base premiums affordable
and then offers many interesting
customizations like worldwide cover, OPD
covers. Okay, now looking at its claims
experience. Speed of claim settlement
for ICICI is 99.94%,
which is close to perfect. But claim
rejection ratio is at 14.11%,
which according to me is a big red flag.
Looking at the customer service, it is
rated as slow on Twitter and average in
case of toll-free response. Premiums for
ICICI Lombard Elevate plan for same Mr.
Kumar and family comes to around 13,964,
which is very, very affordable. But this
is the price for the base plan and will
increase as you add multiple other
add-ons to customize it for your needs.
Moving ahead to our next plan, Manipal
Cigna's Sarva Param. It's a plan most
popular for offering instant covers,
basically a plan which does not have any
kind of waiting periods. Now, talking
about claims experience of Manipal
Cigna. Speed of claim settlement is
98.69%
and claim rejection ratio is 6.24%.
Here, the claim rejection ratio is
slightly higher in comparison to other
options we looked at. Looking at
customer service, slow for Twitter and
quick for toll-free. The premium for
this plan for same Mr. Kumar is 30,346,
which is quite expensive, of course, due
to the zero waiting periods. Now, the
last nominee for today is SBI's Super
Health Prime. This plan focuses on
delivering the basics well with decent
claims performance, too. Now, looking at
their claims performance, speed of claim
settlement for SBI is around 94.46%.
Claim rejection ratio stands at 6.62%,
which is neither good nor bad. Looking
at the customer service, it's rated as
quick on Twitter and slow in case of
toll-free responses. Premium for this
plan is around 17,711,
quite in the cheaper range. All right.
Now, we've seen all the five nominees.
You know their USPs, you know their
claim and customer experience, you know
their pricing. Ab time hai for the final
ratings. ILM Research scores each plan
across three dimensions: product
features, including coverage depth,
restoration, add-ons, and multiple other
things. Claims performance, including
claim settlement, rejection ratios,
complaints handling, financial
stability. Customer experience,
basically including Twitter response and
toll-free response. But to get the final
and most accurate overall ratings, along
with these three important parameters,
ILM includes now an important parameter,
legacy, which tells you how old the
brand is in financial services and the
health insurance industry. It also looks
at the ombudsman cases. This is
basically touching upon the long-term
reliability of the brand. So, here are
the final rankings for 2026. At number
five is SBI Super Health Prime plan with
a score of 4.26 out of five. At number
four, Manipal Cigna's Sarva Param with a
score of 4.28 out of five. Third is
Aditya Birla Activ One Max with a score
of 4.29 out of five. At number two,
ICICI Lombard Elevate with a score of
4.32 out of five. And the top-rated
health insurance plan of 2026 by ILM
ratings is HDFC Ergo's Optima Secure
with a score of 4.58 out of five. But
wait, before you go, here's the thing.
Insurance is not a one-size-fits-all
product. Your age, your health, your
family size, your city, your budget, all
of this matters when you choose the
right health insurance plan for your
needs. In this video, we shared the
standard ratings for a standard family
living in Mumbai, Mr. Kumar with his
wife and his kid, who we have assumed do
not have any budget issues, no health
conditions. But if you want to find a
plan designed exactly for your needs,
one that's built for your situation, not
just a generic list, I would suggest you
book a free consultation with our
professional advisors. With up to 20
years of experience, these experts will
draw out a personalized report matching
your profile and needs with the best,
most suitable product in the market. Get
honest, unbiased, personalized advice,
get answers to all your questions, get
professional support from purchase to
claims lifelong. The service is entirely
free, so you must try it out. The link
to book a consultation is in the
description. And oh yes, if this video
helped you, do like the video. It does
encourage us. And if you have any
questions, post a comment and we will
answer them ASAP. And if you are looking
for extracting best value from
insurance, then you must, must, must
subscribe to our channel. We share
really valuable tips and reviews, and
you won't be disappointed. Stay safe,
stay protected. Bye-bye.